I’m here to talk to you about changing your life. A lot of people I talk to treat their life like it’s some sort of sentient machine that moves continuously, independently, at its own pace. They feel like cogs in that machine, watching passively as it takes its course. 
They don’t realize just how much control they actually have over their lives.
What I need you to do is look at your life as if it is a movie and you are the director.
This is your movie. You choose the actors and the scenes. There can be as many plot twists as you want and, if David Lynch is any proof, your movie doesn’t have to make sense at all. It can be as wild or as calm as you want, and it is never ever too late to turn the film on its head, scream “CUT,” and start from scratch.
So your life’s in a rut. Maybe you do the same thing every day and the repetition is slowly driving you crazy. Maybe you’re at a point where you just want peace and quiet, but all you have is instability and stress. Very often, I hear people tell me they just need a good vacation. The problem with that lies in the fact that you are taking a vacation from your life. You do not want to be in a position where you are trying to get away from your life. If you’ve begun to feel like this, it’s time to think about introducing real change.
First of all, you don’t need to turn your life on its head. Often, making little changes will make a big impact. 
The physical states of our bodies often take a major toll on our minds and emotions. You need to be selfish and make time for yourself, even if you have kids—especially if you have kids. Take just 30 minutes—do it at 5:30 in the morning if you have to—and work out. Kickbox, run, do pilates, dance, do something physically invigorating to wake yourself up. It’s good for your heart and will get your endorphins pumping. Any spare moment you have, do squats, stretch, run in place, do calf lifts or pull ups on your door. You will start feeling more limber and physically stronger, which will then in turn make you feel mentally stronger.
Second, start teaching yourself again.A lot of people act like just because they’re out of school they can’t lean anymore. Learning doesn’t stop after college. Don’t watch TV. Don’t sit on the computer looking at pictures of cats. Learn a language. There are free language learning tools online, and they work. Teach yourself to paint. Teach yourself anything. You are more capable than you think. Enroll in free online college classes. You can advance your career and life in so many ways by becoming more knowledgeable. If you hate your job and have to coax yourself into going every morning, chances are you’re in need of a career change. Go back to school. I don’t care how old you are. Apply for those grants. Get those loans. Do it. Will it be hard? Yes. It will be challenging and expensive, but you’ll pay it back over time. And, ultimately, the alternative is just doing the same thing you were doing before you came here to listen to me. Not good.
Third, volunteer. I hear it all the time: “I would love to do something, but I just don’t have time.” And I’m calling you out on that excuse. Of course you have time. How much time do you spend in front of the TV, vegging out to those shows you recorded on the DVR. I can tell you right now that getting off the couch and helping someone less fortunate is going to be much more rewarding than that most recent episode of 30 Rock. Sometimes, the best thing a person can do with his or her life is dedicating a portion of it to helping where help is needed.
The best thing you can do is take responsibility. Far too often we blame circumstance and even other people for our current situation. “This is just my life,” “It’s too late for me to just change,” “I can’t”...these are all statements used as excuses to justify the continuation of a destructive pattern of behavior and avoid actually doing something about it. You don’t need to wait until next week to evaluate your priorities and decide that you want to do a 180. This is your life and you’ve only got one. You’re responsible for how it goes and no one else. You have one shot. You don’t get a do-over. It doesn't matter how old you are. 
It’s only too late when you flatline. Make this count.
